## Overview

In this repository, I show how to build, install, and run the
[Java Async Profiler](https://github.com/async-profiler/async-profiler) to capture on-CPU and
memory allocation Flame Graphs as an observability tool to visualize how your containerized Java
applications (e.g. AWS ECS / Fargate) are performing.

## Background

Profiling Java applications running in containers without degrading performance is a challenge.
Java agent based profiling tools can add significant overhead, slowing down production systems.
[Brendan Gregg's Flame Graph toolchain](https://www.brendangregg.com/FlameGraphs/cpuflamegraphs.html)
for capturing Java mixed mode CPU Flame Graphs is low overhead, but comes with some challenges
when running in AWS ECS / Fargate.

Configuring an running the Flame Graph dependencies is a bit of a challenge, since it requires
newer linux kernels, access to k-probes / u-probes, and Java processes to be configured to preserve
frame pointers via JVM flag `XX:+PreserveFramePointer`. This also requires the mappings of the Java
methods to memory addresses be written to disk using
[perf-map-agent](https://github.com/jvm-profiling-tools/perf-map-agent), which needs to be compiled
and installed.

[Perf-map-agent](https://github.com/jvm-profiling-tools/perf-map-agent) runs into a bit of a snag
when running in a container, due to the PID of the container being different than the PID of the
process on the host, since the container shares the host OS. There's a workaround for that, but it
adds to the complexity of getting up and running.

For capturing CPU and Memory flamegrpahs for Java process,
[Java Async Profiler](https://github.com/async-profiler/async-profiler) is a simpler solution.

Like linux-perf and Flame Graphs, Java Async Profiler has low overhead, meaning that it can be run
in prod without degrading performance. It's also much simpler to install, and is much easier to
get working in AWS / containers, where access to the kernel is restricted.

## Profiling

### Testing Locally

Run [profile.sh](observability/profile.sh) to spin up a docker container running a Spring Boot
application to generate a synthetic load, capture CPU and memory allocation flame graphs, copy them
back to the host, then terminate the container.

Here's a [CPU](observability/cpu-flame.html) flame graph generated by running [profile.sh](observability/profile.sh).

Here's a [memory allocation](observability/alloc-flame.html) flame graph generated by running
[profile.sh](observability/profile.sh).

### Running in AWS

#### Shell Access

If you want to run these commands from the AWS console, get shell access using this command

```bash
aws ecs execute-command \
  --cluster prototype-perf-cluster \
  --task <TASK_ID> \
  --container spring-app \
  --interactive \
  --command "/bin/bash"
```

#### CPU Profile

Once you have access to the container, run the async profiler to capture a CPU flame graph.

```bash
/opt/async-profiler/bin/asprof -e itimer -d 30 -f /app/profiles/cpu-flame.html 1
```

#### Memory Profile

Once you have access to the container, run the async profiler to capture memory allocation flame graphs.

```bash
/opt/async-profiler/bin/asprof -e alloc -d 30 -f /app/profiles/alloc-flame.html 1
```
